(upbeat music)
So a quick note on accessibility,
and keeping our websites accessible
to anybody who wants to use them,
no matter what maybe disability they might have,
or what input are device they have,
or what situation they're currently in,
it should still be a usable website.
And HTML by itself, if you mark it up correctly,
is very accessible.
What happens often is us JavaScript developers come in here
and goof it up for everybody.
And we make these things
that only work with the mouse,
or aren't accessible to anybody.
So what we want to do here is just go over a couple
of common pitfalls that happen in JavaScript.
Because I think most of these accessibility goof ups are not
because someone is sitting there being,
"Oh, well, screw blind people."
No, they're not saying that at all.
They accidentally, they don't know what they're doing,
they don't know what to look out for,
and then before you know it,
you've deployed a website
that is unintentionally hurting somebody.
So, what we want to do here is
just kind of go over a couple pitfalls,
and the biggest one is,
this bugs me as well,
it bugs everybody,
is that the difference between buttons and links.
So,
buttons are to be used for actions
that happen inside of a application.
Links are used to change the page.
Do not mix those up,
meaning that links are not to be used where buttons are.
And I see this all the time where.
Somebody will go in here and they'll have
like an A, and I've certainly done this myself.
I'm sure you can dig it up,
and they have an a href=#.
They link it and they'll call it like a save button.
They what they'll do is go into JavaScript and select it,
and say when somebody clicks this save button,
prevent the default,
and then go ahead and save whatever it that you're saving in
and that's not a used case for a link,
because a link that doesn't go anywhere is not a link.
That is a used case for a button,
that is an action within your application
or that's an action within your website.
That actually needs to do something.
It's still fine to prevent default on a specific link
like for example on Twitter
Here let me open up Twitter.
Wes bos.
And if I try to go to tweets and replies.
You'll see that this is probably a link.
Yeah this is a link and it goes to /wes/ with replies,
but if I click.
It says you're not signed in.
You can't view that just yet.
That's a very valid use case for using a prevent default.
What does is that says if they're not signed in.
Prevent the default of going to that page
and show this little sign in box.
You still can't right click open a new tab
and that will still go to the URL,
but now it's telling you to go ahead and log in.
That's an absolutely valid use case.
Where as something like this.
Where it's a follow button.
That doesn't go to specific page.
So if we inspect it.
There it is,
it is a button.
Right so.
Then that will trigger the action of following the person.
So whenever you need to do something.
Don't mix up buttons and links.
The other thing I want to tell you about is,
Things are not keyboard accessible.
Should not have clicks registered on them,
unless you need to.
So one example is we'll have an image and
https picsum.photos/200 put alt nice.
Now we have - this didn't work- .photos,
there we go that's good.
Now we can go ahead and listen for a click on that thing.
Maybe give it a class of a photo...
and I'll go to my JavaScript here.
i'll just use this as forms on here.
Grab a photo.
Then we'll take our photo
and we'll add an event listener,
to click.
And then we will run a function here.
And console log "You clicked the photo".
So there certainly are valid use cases
for clicking on a photo.
Maybe it will open up a larger version of that photo.
Maybe want to do some drawing on that photo.
Maybe you want to zoom it in or
be able to click and drag around.
Certainly lots of valid use cases for clicking on the photo.
Which is great
and if I open up my DevTools here if I click it.
It says you clicked on the photo.
However if I throw my mouse away and try do this
However if I throw my mouse away and try do this with just-
get out of here wes.
Did you see that dog in the blanket?
We messed it.
Anyways if I try to click on that photo now.
I can tab through all of my everything on browser here,
but I can't click on that photo with only my keyboard.
And that's a bit of a problem
because if the user doesn't have a mouse or
they're unable to use a mouse
then they can't use that part of your website.
So super easy solution is you can either change it,
you can give your thing a role of button.
If you mean for something to be
a button that is not a button tag like.
I don't know why,
but for some reason people use divs as buttons
and if you really need to-
you have a valid reason for doing that,
you must go ahead and add a role of button to that div.
Then you also need to give it a tabindex,
likely of zero and what will do is it will put in the flow.
So that people can tab to it with their keyboards.
Same thing with this image here.
You can give it a roll button,
but if you're doing that.
It's probably easier just to use a button
and then put the image inside of the button.
And then you're in better shape right?
So that's another option we have there.
so I'll do this tabindex = zero on this one-
what did I forget here?
Now when I go through my tabbing.
You'll see that I can focus each of those things.
That I have here and kinda go
back and forth between the two.
Now if I focus this image here and hit my enter key.
Unlike some other buttons and things like that.
It still will not trigger a click.
So that's the case you have to go back to your JavaScript
and you also have to also grab this event listener.
What I would do here is say function handle photo click.
And we move with my logic up to an external function
and then just wire it up like this.
Handle photo click
and then I would duplicate that
and listen for a key up event on the photo as well.
Now when I go to that image.
You can click on over to it.
Now you notice actually right there.
A little aside here,
but when I focus into that.
It says you click the photo and that's not actually true.
I'm only looking for the enter key.
So like there's another little piece of information.
How do I then only listen for the enter key on here?
The event has a bunch of information about that.
Go to the event,
console log the event and the event has a .key or .key code.
The .key is more modern and more ideal.
It's supported in most browsers.
In every single key
on an event will give you a bunch of information.
I have this website called Keycode.info
and you can literally just press on any key.
In it and it will give you the
meta information about that key.
So we have a event.key, event.which and event.code.
So key is probably the best to go about it.
There's also just a big table
of all of them available there.
So that's Keycode.info if you want that info here.
So we can say is if the event.type=='click' or
and I know we haven't gone into this flow control
too much just yet.
So don't worry too much about this until we get into that
Or the event.key === 'Enter'.
Triple equals.
Then you go ahead and you click the photo.
Now tab tab tab tab tab enter,
you click the photo not it's totally accessible.
So those are easy things to forget,
but almost always it's like.
An extra 10 minutes worth of work to make sure that you
do those things in there are accessible.
The other thing I want to mention real quick
is custom events.
We're not going to go through them like I'm doing here,
but we will be doing them a lot in all of our exercises.